Find 1.1.0

This project has been written by Andrey SOBOLEVSKY, Franck TROUILLEZ and Tristan
SMEESTERS.

The purpose of this code is to align a query sequence with all the proteins
from the database. It uses the Smith-Waterman Algorithm to get scores and to
get the alignements in an output file (result.txt by default).

To launch the program, use the instruction ./launch.
It will do a bash run, which is used to avoid random segmentation faults,
because of the SIMD and multithreading implementation. If a segmentation fault
occur, it simply restarts the program.


In this bash code, we start the executable file, which is "find", and we
give him the args from the bash program.

"find" will check all the args are will verify if the query and the
database are given. Without them, we cannot run the algorithm.
Once all the parameters are verified and that at least, the query
and the database are given, we launch the program.

First, we read in the *.pin file, in order to get all the information
about the database, such as the offsets.
Then, we charge the content of the *.psq file in memory, in order
to access it faster.

The algorithm can now be executed.

The program works in 2 times.

First, we calculate the alignement
score of every sequence in the database, using SIMD parallelisation.
If the computer has more than one core, we dispatch the work
in order to go faster.
Then, for the #n best results, we reapply the algorithm to find the
alignement itself. This part don't use SIMD parallelisation.
However, it can be implemented but the number of results asked
are generally much lower than the number of sequences in the database.
The gain is thus not significant for a #n lower enough.

Once all the alignements are done, we can write the results in
the output file.

Note : Results, especially made on 4-core PC (*_ULB_PC.txt), are reported in results_rep

Usage : ./launch [OPTIONS]
Usage
-q      name of query file (required)
-d      name of data file (required)
-o      name of output file (result.txt)
-n      number of results showed (10)
-m      scoring matrix used for Smith-Waterman(blosum62)
-gpo    gap penality opening (11)
-gpe    gap penality expansion (1)

updated on December 18, 2019
